# Data Description

Access to Raw Data: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Wiza5SvaDJc43cd2JhGlM5ZWJh76AVtY?usp=drive_link

## IMDb Data
**Source**:  https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1w3_rzuVN84Bric1npZoO2F_mTDy0R6Y5?usp=drive_link
The IMDb datasets are refreshed dialy and can be accessed and downloade ftom IMDb dataset [IMDb Non-Commercial Datasets]. Each dataset is contained in a gzipped, TSV formatted file. The first line in each file contains headers that describe what is in each column. The raw data used in data intergration can be access through the google drive.

**Files Used**:
- **Title.basics.csv**
  - `tconst`: Alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
  - `titleType`: The type/format of the title (e.g. movie, short, tvseries, etc)
  - `primaryTitle`: The more popular title used by the filmmakers
  - `originalTitle`: Original title in the original language
  - `isAdult`: 0 for non-adult title; 1 for adult title
  - `startYear`: Release year of a title; series start year for TV series
  - `endYear`: End year for TV series; '\N' for other title types
  - `runtimeMinutes`: Primary runtime of the title in minutes
  - `genres`: Up to three genres associated with the title

- **Title.crew.csv**
  - `tconst`: Alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
  - `directors`: Array of nconsts for director(s) of the title
  - `writers`: Array of nconsts for writer(s) of the title

- **Title.ratings.csv**
  - `tconst`: Alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
  - `averageRating`: Weighted average of all the individual user ratings
  - `numVotes`: Number of votes the title has received

- **Name.basics.csv**
  - `nconst`: Alphanumeric unique identifier of the name/person
  - `primaryName`: Name by which the person is most often credited
  - `birthYear`: Birth year in YYYY format
  - `deathYear`: Death year in YYYY format if applicable; '\N' otherwise
  - `primaryProfession`: Top-3 professions of the person
  - `knownForTitles`: Array of tconsts for titles the person is known for

  ## TMDb Data
  **Source**: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/161knLzcr6vh4NsDqk_ai3itp4YxbCLv9?usp=drive_link
  
  Due to timely matters to request for API access, public data available on Kaggle (latest updated in 2024) was used. [TMDb Movies Dataset on Kaggle]

**Key Columns**:
- `Id`: Unique identifier for each movie
- `Title`: Title of the movie
- `Vote_average`: Average vote or rating given by viewers
- `Vote_count`: Total count of votes received for the movie
- `Status`: Status of the movie (e.g., released, rumored, post-production)
- `Release_date`: Date when the movie was released
- `Revenue`: Total revenue generated by the movie
- `Runtime`: Duration of the movie in minutes
- `Adult`: Indicates if the movie is suitable only for adult audiences
- `Backdrop_path`: URL of the backdrop image for the movie

### Metacritic Data
**Source**: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cDYxDwXecMypKPl4C6owszf-bum-VTKF/view?usp=drive_link
The original datasource is from Kaggle. [Metacritic Movie Reviews on Kaggle]
**Key Columns**:
- `Movie_title`: Unique values for movie titles
- `Release_date`
- `Genre`
- `Meta_mixed`
- `Meta_negative`
- `Meta_positive`
- `Metascore`: Aggregated score from Metacritic
- `User_mixed`
- `User_negative`
- `User_positive`

### Integration Process
1. **IMDb Data**:
   - Convert the data to csv format
   - Data cleaning in title.basixcs.csv
   - Extracted movie data from 2000 to 2024.
   - Integrated title.ratings.csv and Title.basixcs.csv.
   - Combined information about Title.crew.csv and Name.basics.csv.
   - Final integrated data saved in `imdb_score.csv`.

2. **TMDB Data**:
   - Data cleaning remove some columns.
   - Integrated IMDb data with TMDB scores.
   - Merged on movie titles and saved in `movie_rating_imdb_tmdb.csv`.

3. **Metacritic Data**:
   - Integrated `movie_rating_imdb_tmdb.csv` with Metacritic scores.
  
4. **Finalize data structure**
   - Normalized scores to a common range (1-10).
   - Calculated average scores and saved in `movie_rating_imdb_tmdb_metacritic.csv`.

### Challenges
- **Large Dataset**: IMDb datasets are large, making them time-consuming to load and process.
- **Different Structures**: Each dataset has a unique structure, requiring significant data transformation and cleaning.
- **Data update**: each data has different update time, which require some data cleaning and intergration to fix it.

### Final Data Structure
- `tconst`: Alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
- `primaryTitle`: The more popular title used by the filmmakers
- `startYear`: Release year of a title; series start year for TV series
- `genres`: Up to three genres associated with the title
- `directors`: Array of nconsts for director(s) of the title
- `averageRating`: Weighted average of all the individual user ratings
- `tmdb score`: Average score from TMDB
- `metascore`: Aggregated score from Metacritic
- `average_score`: Normalized average score from IMDb, TMDb, and Metacritic

## Installation and Usage
1. Download the raw data
2. Run Google Colabs that are provided accordingly
